This is the Sprite anonymous ftp directory.

* Papers:

sprite.bib:	The Sprite bibliography, in BibTeX form.

recovOSR91.ps:	Paper on crash recovery.

lfsSOSP91.ps:	Paper on log-structured file systems in PostScript.

measureSOSP91.ps:	Paper on Sprite file system measurements in Postscript.

nvram-asplos92.ps:	Paper on using non-volatile memory in operating systems.
			For the ASPLOS-92 proceedings.

nameUsenix92.ps.Z:	Paper on name caching from Winter 1992 Usenix.

benchUsenix90.ps:	Postscript for paper from Summer 1990 USENIX:  "Why
			Aren't Operating Systems Getting Faster As Fast As
			Hardware?"

recovBoxUsenix92.ps:	Paper on recovery box for Summer 92 USENIX.

appendRatio.ps.Z: 	Slides from talk on file append vs. overwrite ratios. 
			The results are derived from the same traces as the
			SOSP paper. This talk was given to the LADDIS group
			on 1/21/92. John Hartman.

zebra.ps.Z:		"Zebra: A Striped Network File System". Appeared
			in the Proceedings of the USENIX Workshop on
			File Systems. Also as UCB/CSD Tech Report 92/683
* Sources: 

bench.tar.Z:	Sources for a collection of small benchmarks used in
		the paper "Why Aren't Operating Systems Getting Faster
		as Fast as Hardware".  Maintained by John Ousterhout.

gdb.tar.Z:	gdb for Mach 3.0.  Maintained by Mike Kupfer.

gifFiles.tar:	GIF image files

gld.tar.Z:	Gnu linker with modifications for cross-linking between
		different machine types.

mab.tar.Z:	Sources for Modified Andrew Benchmark (used in paper
		"Why Aren't Operating Systems Getting Faster as Fast
		as Hardware" and for other purposes).  Maintained
		by John Ousterhout.

mipsim.tar.Z:	A simulator and assembly-language program debugger for
		the MIPS R2000 architecture, written by John Ousterhout
		for use in a freshman-level course in C and assembler.


sosp-traces	A directory for the traces and post-processors used for the
		sosp91 measurements paper.

tcl		A subdirectory full of various files containing sources and
		documentation for Tcl and Tk and related packages.  See the
		README file in that directory for more information.

xfract101.shar.Z	X version 1.01 of fractint (as compressed shar).

xtsim.tar.Z	library to interface event driven simulator to Xt toolkit.

ncube:		GNU software for nCUBE multiprocessor (gcc,gas,gld,g++)

chaos.c.Z	Draw chaotic attractor.

sprite-X.XXX.tar.Z Sprite kernel sources, version X.XXX.  Won't compile into
		   a kernel, but useful for browsing or borrowing code.

* Other:

synth_prices:	Prices of used synth equipment.

cs252_ftp:	Ftp directory for CS 252 class.

douglis:
eklee:
welch:		Ftp directories for those users


This archive is maintained by shirriff@sprite.Berkeley.EDU.

Note to spriters: please update this README if you add ftp files.
