Keith's rdate

Copyright (c) 1990, W. Keith Pyle, Austin, Texas

Description
-----------

rdate is functionally similar to the rdate command found in SunOS 4.1.
It is not based on or written with knowledge of source code from
SunOS.  rdate provides a means for setting the date of the local
machine from another machine through use of the TCP time protocol
defined in RFC868.  Extensions are provided over the SunOS rdate: (1)
to allow specification of multiple time servers, (2) to simply display
the server(s) time and not set the local machine's date, and (3) to
optionally use the adjtime system call, if available, to gradually
adjust the local time.

rdate has been ported to:

HP 9000/825, HP/UX A.B7.00
Sun 3, SunOS 4.1
Sequent Symmetry, DYNIX 3.0.17
VAX 3602, Ultrix 3.1
PS/2, AIX
Unisys U6000/51, System Vr3
Interactive 386/ix

See the man page for more information on the command.
See the file INSTALL for installation instructions.
See the file PORTING for porting comments.

Qualifications
--------------

This program may be copied, transferred, or used in any manner subject
to the following conditions:

1) The original README and MANIFEST files must be retained
   in any subsequent source distributions, whether unaltered or not.

2) Neither the author nor his employer make any express or implied
   warranties as to the fitness of this program for any particular
   purpose.  The user assumes full responsible for the use of this
   program and any consequences of its use whether due to defect,
   misuse, abuse, etc.
        
3) The origin of this program must not be misrepresented, either
   by explicit claim or omission.
        
4) Altered versions of this program must be clearly identified as
   such and may not be represented as the original.
        
5) This program may not be sold in any form without the express
   written consent of the author.

6) Should any of the above be held unenforceable, the remainder shall
   remain in force.

Contacting the Author
---------------------
 
Reports of bugs, requests for enhancements, comments, compliments, and
flames may be sent to the author at the following address.

Keith Pyle                                UUCP: ...!uunet!execu!keith
Execucom Systems Corp., Austin, Texas     Internet: keith@execu.com
