
Procedure for doing a dump (revised $Date: 92/06/05 13:11:17 $).

Right now the dumping procedure is kind of labor intensive.  

Finding a tape:

A level 0 (weekly) dump will take about 2 tapes (4 tapes using the old
Exabyte 8200's).  A single tape can hold about a week's worth of level
1 (daily) dumps.  Tapes are stored in 608-2 Evans. Some are in the
tape holder on the wall, more are in the file cabinet.  Here is the
method for reusing tapes.  Daily dumps can be reused if there have
been two weekly dumps done since they were created, although you'll
want to save them as long as possible. That way we don't lose anything
should a single weekly dump be unreadable.  Weekly dumps are saved for
a month, and every sixth weekly dump set is saved forever.  After that
weekly dump tapes can be reused as well.  A database of what tapes
were used for and when is kept in /sprite/admin/dump/dumpdates.

The tapes in the tape holder are stored in chronological order
left-to-right, like a circular buffer.  Weekly dump tapes have
rubberbands around them.  The most current weekly dump has a paperclip
in the rubberband.  Older tapes are kept in the filing cabinet.  The
boxes marked "reuse" are ok for using.  Boxes marked "weekly" are for
weekly dump tapes.  The box marked "bad" contains defective tapes that
can be given away. When you clean out a slot in the tape holder put
the daily dump tapes in a reuse box.  If you are cleaning out the
upper left slot the weekly tapes go into a weekly box.  For any other
slot the weekly tapes go into a reuse box.  We should probably put
tapes into one box and get them to use from another so that tapes
don't get overwritten right away.

Finding a drive:

There are currently two drives being used for backups.  To avoid
problems with server crashes, they are generally hooked up to a client
machine, often the home machine of the person doing the dumps.  If you
move the drives, you must edit the crontab of the new and old hosts so
that the right machine does the daily dumps (see "Daily dumps" below).
The drives are named /dev/rst04.nr and /dev/rst05.nr.

Putting the tape in the drive:

Push the button on the exabyte.  After about 30 seconds the door will
open.  Make sure the red write-protect slider on the tape is not visible.
Put in the new tape and close the door.  Wait about 30 seconds
and the green light will go on.  Now you're ready to go.  While the tape
is being accessed the red light will flicker.

Initializing a tape:

Once you have found a tape you need to initialize it.
Notes: you must wait until the green light goes on before initializing.
You must be root to do the initialization.

a) Initializing a blank tape

If it is a blank tape use the command "dump -i <tape#> -f <device>".
(See "Finding a drive" above for the list of device names.)  The next
tape number can be determined from the dumpdates file.  In the long
run, you can just look for the last "Initializing" line.  For the time
being, though, you should verify that there aren't any "Initializing"
lines with a higher tape number than the one you plan to use.

b) Initializing an old tape

If you're reusing a tape use "dump -r -f <device>".  Make sure the
device you use is a "norewind" tape device.

Daily dumps:

Daily dumps are done via the script /sprite/admin.$MACHINE/dailydump.
This script is run every night by cron.  It will send mail to "dumper"
when it completes or if there are errors.  If the machine doing the
dumps crashes while the dumps are in progress, "dumper" will get mail
with an error message when it reboots.  If this happens, you will need
to start a new tape.  This is because the dump program gets confused
by the partial file at the end of the tape, at least when used with an
8500 tape drive.

You can also check /sprite/admin/dump/dumplog for error messages.  You
can use /sprite/admin.$MACHINE/dumpsize to get an idea when the daily
tape is about to fill up.

If you take over as dumper during the middle of the week, you should
edit /sprite/admin/dump/dumpalias by hand (so that it names you
instead of the old dumper).  If your first job as dumper is to run the
weekly dumps, the weekly dump script will change the dumpalias file
for you.

Weekly dumps:

1. Log in as yourself to the machine with the drives, su to root, and
run "/sprite/admin.$MACHINE/weeklydump -i".  This will initialize the
tape in the drive and start the dumps.  This will disable the daily
dumps by creating a lockfile "/sprite/admin/dump/doingweekly".  This
will also change the dumper alias to your userid.  You should either
run it from the console or run it with stdout and stderr redirected to
a file or /dev/null.  If you run it from, e.g., an rlogin shell
without redirecting the output, the dump will abort when you log out.
If something goes wrong with the weekly dump and you want to start over
again, you will need to run "weeklydump startFs" where startFs is the first
file system that you wish to start dumping.  Otherwise, it will start dumping
from the file system after the last successfully dumped file system.

2. When the tape on one drive fills up, the dumps will automatically
resume using the next drive in the tape list (see
/sprite/admin/dump/tapelist).  If the dumps exhaust the list of tapes,
the weeklydump script will send mail to "dumper", saying that the
dumps need attention and giving the name of the next filesystem that
needs to be dumped.  (Alternatively, you can look in the dumplog or
dumpdates files to see which filesystem couldn't be dumped.)  With the
old 8200's it took 10-12 hours to write the first two tapes.  With the
8500's it takes about 15 hours to do the complete dumps (on two
tapes).  If the drives do run out, replace the tapes with new ones.
Rerun "weeklydump -i".  It will look in the lock file to determine the
next directory to dump and resume dumping.

As with the daily dumps, "dumper" will get mail in case of errors,
crashes, or completion of the dumps.

3. One the dumps are complete, label the tapes (with the date and what
filesystems they contain).  Put another tape in the first drive (the
one listed first in /sprite/admin/dump/tapelist) and reenable the
daily dumps with "dailydump -i".

Cleaning a tape drive:

The tape drives should be cleaned once a quarter, using the drive
cleaning kits in the filing cabinet in 608-2.  Each kit is good for
three cleanings.  When you start a new kit, mark both the cartridge
and the bottle with the drive that you are cleaning them with.  Also
write down the date of the cleaning on the cartridge.  When reusing a
kit, use the cartridge and bottle that are labeled for the drive you
want to clean.  (And of course write down the date on the cartridge.)
Specific instructions on how to use the kit are in with the cartridge.

Tape errors:

Occasionally the dumps will fail due to some problem with the tape
drive.  There should be a syslog message from the tape driver which
contains some magic numbers detailing the failure.  To look up the
meaning of the numbers, check out Appendices C and D of the Exabyte
8500 User's Manual.  The "sense code" and "qualifier" in the syslog
message correspond to the ASC and ASCQ numbers in Appendix C.
Unfortunately, you have to guess what the Sense Key was.  The "symptom
code" in the syslog message corresponds to the FSC numbers in Appendix
D.

Other documentation:

You may also wish to read the man pages for the following programs and
scripts: dump, dailydump, weeklydump.
