Here are a few guidelines on how to make kernel changes without stepping
on other people.

    Quick, compatible changes:
If you have a quick change to make (1 day's work or less), and this change
is not visible outside of its own module, then go ahead and make the change
in the uninstalled copy of that module.

    Longer or incompatible changes:
If your changes are visible outside of a particular module or would require
keeping files checked out for more than a day, then make a snap-shot of the
modules you need to change and do your work in those copies.  You will also
need to make snap-shots of the modules your changes affect.

    Incompatible changes to header files:
To make changes to a header file that would affect other people, create a
directory in /sprite/src/kernel called something like "hdrs.name" where name
is your login name or initials.  Put a link to, or copy of, your changed header
file in this directory.  Then, in your home directory, create a file named
kernel.mk.  Put the line

CFLAGS += -I/sprite/src/kernel/hdrs.name

in this file.  Then, when you compile your modules, the first place a
header file will be looked for is in hdrs.name.  If it's not found there,
it will be picked up from the standard places.

    Merging your changes back into the public modules:
After you have tested your changes, merge them into the uninstalled modules.
Merging changes usually doesn't take much longer than a day, and the installed
modules are still available while you're hacking in the uninstalled modules.
It might be nice to send mail to spriters telling them that you are doing
this to the uninstalled modules.

    Installing your changes:
After you have merged and tested your changes, it's okay to install them.
Install all the modules you need to install in order to make the set
of installed modules compatible with each other.  You do not need to install
a whole new kernel.

    Changes to kernel structures visible to user programs:
This is a mess.  Let's say you have made a change to the Fs_Stat structure.
This means the user program fsstat may no longer work.  You can write a
script called fsstat that grabs the kernel version and picks either fsstat.old
or fsstat.new to exec.  For spring cleaning, let's hope we do something
more pleasant to solve this problem.

    Sending email:
It's an admirable thing to send mail to spriters advising them of any
changes that may affect them.  If you install a module, for instance, it's
pleasant to let people know about this, so they can come and harass you
later if the module has broken something.
