From: jhh@sprite.Berkeley.EDU (John H. Hartman)
Date: Fri, 4 May 90 16:59:35 PDT
X-Mailer: Mail User's Shell (7.0.4 1/31/90)
To: sprite@sprite.Berkeley.EDU
Subject: how to recover a file


This is a brief tutorial on how to recover a file from an Mx log,
just in case any of you have to do it.  I had started editing the
file with mx on wednesday morning.  On Thursday evening the
file had zero length.  I was still in the original editing session,
however, so I had the log.  In order to reconstruct the file
you must have a snapshot of the log and the file.  I was able to
get these from Wednesday evening's dump.  Then you have to fiddle
with the magic numbers at the top of the log.  The first line in
the log file looks like this:

f -1       netRoute.c     9a1d 2640d646    29416

where the first two fields have unknown meaning, the third is the 
filename, the fourth is the inode number, the fifth is the time
when the log was created (I think) and the last is the offset
into the log the last time the file was written out.  What you
need to do is to copy the offset from the snapshot of the log
into the current copy of the log.  This won't work if you were
unlucky enough to write out the file inbetween the time when the
log was dumped and when the file was dumped. Then you have to
determine the inode number of the restored file and change
the inode field of the log. Run mx on the file and type
"undo recover <log>" at the command line. If you get the
inode number wrong then mx will silently ignore the undo
command.  If you get the offset wrong then mx may go into
the debugger.  If everything goes correctly then you
get your file back.

If you don't have a snapshot of the log then you need to
get a snapshot of the file prior to the start of the
editing session.  Change the inode number in the log,
then change the offset to be the start of the log.  
This is offset 218 and can be determined by starting an
mx session and looking at the log.  Then use the undo
command to role forward.

Hope this is helpful.

John
