
          tcl [-q] [[-f] script]|[-c command] [args]

          Tcl starts the interactive Tcl command interpreter.  The Tcl
          shell provides an environment for writing, debugging and
          executing Tcl scripts.  The functionality of the Tcl shell
          can be easily obtained by any application that includes Tcl.

          The tcl command, issued without any arguments, invokes an
          interactive Tcl shell, allowing the user to interact
          directly with Tcl, executing any Tcl commands at will and
          viewing their results.

          If script is specified, then the script is executed
          noninteractively with any additional arguments, args, being
          supplied in the global Tcl variable `argv'.  If command is
          supplied, then this command (or semicolon-separated series
          of commands) is executed, with `argv' containing any args.

          The Tcl shell is intended as an environment for Tcl program
          development and execution.  While it is not a full-featured
          interactive shell, it provides a comfortable environment for
          the interactive development of Tcl code.  Note that the
          package library code described here overrides the unknown
          command provided as part of the standard Berkeley Tcl
          library facility, although Tcl source libraries coded to
          that standard can be loaded and used by Extended Tcl.

          The following command line flags are recognized by the Tcl
          shell command line parser:

          -q   Quick initialization flag.  If this flag is set the
               only initialization step performed is to locate the Tcl
               default file and save its name in the Tcl variable
               TCLDEFAULT.  The file is not evaluated nor is the
               TclInit.tcl file.  This provides for a fast startup,
               but does not make any of the standard Tcl procedures
               and facilities available.

          -f   Takes the next argument as a script for Tcl to source,
               rather than entering interactive mode.  The -f flag is
               optional.  Normally the first argument that does not
               start with a `-' is taken as the script to execute
               unless the `-c' option is specified.  Any following
               arguments are passed to the script via argv, thus any
               other Tcl shell command-line flags must precede this
               option.

          -c   Take the next argument as a Tcl command to execute.  It
               may contain series of commands to execute, separated by
               `;'.  Any following arguments are passed in argv, thus,
               as with -f, any other Tcl shell flags must precede this
               option.

          --   Mark the end of the arguments to the Tcl shell. All
               arguments following this are passed in the Tcl variable
               argv.  This is useful to pass arguments without
               attempting to execute a Tcl script.

          The result string returned by a command executed from the
          Tcl shell command line is normally echoed back to the user.
          If an error occurs, then the string result is displayed,
          along with the error message.  The error message will be
          preceded by the string ``Error:''.

          The set command is a special case.  If the command is called
          to set a variable (i.e. with two arguments), then the result
          will not be echoed.  If only one argument, the name of a
          variable, is supplied to set, then the result will be
          echoed.

          If an unknown Tcl command is entered from the command line,
          then the Unix command path, specified in the environment
          variable PATH, will be searched for a command of the same
          name.  If the command is found, it will be executed with any
          arguments remaining on the Tcl command line being passed as
          arguments to the command.  This feature is provided to
          enhance the interactive environment for developing Tcl
          scripts.

          Automatic execution of programs in this manner is only
          supported from the command line, not in script files or in
          procedures, to reduce confusion and mistakes while
          programming in Tcl.  Scripts should use the Tcl exec or
          system commands to run Unix commands.
