          open fileName ?access?
               Opens a file and returns an identifier that may be used
               in future invocations of commands like read, write, and
               close.  FileName gives the name of the file to open; if
               it  starts  with  a  tilde  then  tilde substitution is
               performed as  described  for  Tcl_TildeSubst.   If  the
               first character of fileName is ``|'' then the remaining
               characters  of  fileName  are  treated  as  a   command
               pipeline  to invoke, in the same style as for exec.  In
               this case, the identifier returned by open may be  used
               to  write  to the command's input pipe or read from its
               output pipe.  The access argument indicates the way  in
               which the file (or command pipeline) is to be accessed.
               It may have any of the following values:

               r
                    Open  the  file  for  reading  only; the file must
                    already exist.

               r+
                    Open  the  file  for both reading and writing; the
                    file must already exist.

               w
                    Open the file for writing only.  Truncate it if it
                    exists.  If it doesn't exist, create a new file.

               w+
                    Open  the  file for reading and writing.  Truncate
                    it if it exists.  If it doesn't  exist,  create  a
                    new file.

               a
                    Open  the  file  for  writing only.  The file must
                    already exist, and the file is positioned so  that
                    new data is appended to the file.

               a+
                    Open  the  file for reading and writing.  The file
                    must  already  exist,  and  the   initial   access
                    position is set to the end of the file.

               Access defaults to r.  If a file  is  opened  for  both
               reading  and writing, then seek must be invoked between
               a read and a write, or  vice  versa  (this  restriction
               does  not apply to command pipelines opened with open).
               When  fileName  specifies  a  command  pipeline  and  a
               write-only  access  is  used, then standard output from
               the pipeline is directed to the current standard output
               unless   overridden  by  the  command.   When  fileName
               specifies a command pipeline and a read-only access  is
               used,  then  standard  input from the pipeline is taken
               from the current standard input  unless  overridden  by
               the command.
